---
---
# Actor

![](/images/about-me/actor.jpg)
I have been acting for over quarter-century and have appeared in theater,
television, movies, and commercials.

Acting plays a big part in making me the person I am. At first it fulfilled a
simple desire for attention I couldn't get other ways. But later it forced me to
confront who I really am and to expose that raw vulnerable side we all have but
keep hidden and protected by our social masks. When we suffer to expose that
hidden side of us on stage and then survive the experience, we grow powerful. We
have faced our deepest fear and survived. Surely there is nothing that can harm
us.

See my [reel](/new-year-new-reel), or keep up with [acting](/acting) career.

# Hypnotist

A multi-year quest to understand human behavior from several different
directions led me to hypnosis. In an effort to fully internalize what hypnosis
had to teach me I sought out a course that would train me as a practitioner. In
this way I could observe, understand, and experience hypnosis.

I trained with Mary Elizabeth Raines at the Academy for Professional Hypnosis
Training were I was certified as a Clinical Hypnotherapist and granted entry to
the National Guild of Hypnotists.

# Poker Player

![](/images/about-me/poker-player.png)
I started playing poker around 2004 and immediately saw it as a fascinating
puzzle with lots of complicated pieces.

Over the next few years it became a past-time and then an interesting subject to
study. Eventually I learned enough and developed the skill to win consistently.
In 2006 income from poker gave me the confidence to quit my job.

I've been a professional poker player ever since and currently specialize in
live mid-stakes no-limit hold'em cash games.

Sometimes I [write about poker](/poker).

# Software Engineer

Computers are the most powerful tools in the history of mankind and we have only
begun to scratch the surface of what they can do. I am always looking for ways
to improve lives and computer software is a fertile field for that.

Over a quarter-century of hands-on work gives me extensive practical knowledge
and skills. My MIT education, where I earned a degree in computer science, gives
me a broad and solid understanding of the fundamental science involved.

I've developed firmware, desktop applications, and web-based applications. I
have built two different companies based on software I wrote and I am currently
working on my first hand-held application.

Occasionally I write about [software development](/software).

# Producer

![](/images/about-me/pulp-shakespeare.jpg)
I produced the award-winning and critically-acclaimed hit ["Pulp
Shakespeare"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ffkeYdpjaIs) which played to full
houses in Los Angeles for eleven weeks.

<img src="/images/about-me/wsop-circuit-logo.gif" class="right">
During the 2012-2013 season I was the field producer for the World Series of
Poker Circuit final table broadcasts on ESPN. Over the course of six months we
went to thirteen different locations in eleven states (and one Canadian
province) creating as-live broadcast of tournaments finales.

# Writer

I've written screenplays, TV shows, thousands of
[tweets](https://twitter.com/exmember) (some of them clever), this blurb, and everything else published [here](/everything).
