---
title: Cheating on Absolute Poker and Ultimate Bet
date: '2008-05-27 05:47:29 +0000'
category:
- poker
tags:
- online
- cheating
---
Someone has been able to play on Absolute Poker and Ultimate Bet while knowing
the hole cards of their opponents. This has been proven beyond a reasonable
doubt.

Both of the online poker rooms where the cheating has been proven are owned by
Tokwiro Enterprises ENRG and regulated by the Kahnawake Gaming Commission in the
Mohawk Territory of Kahnawake in Quebec Canada.

The online poker rooms, and the Kahnawake Gaming Commission have been impotent
in investigating the cheating over the past six months.

The cheating has been allowed to continue facilitated by some combination of
incompetence and assistance within those poker rooms.

A detailed summary, including all available documentation and statistical proofs
can be found [here](https://forumserver.twoplustwo.com/showthread.php?t=208114).

### Is online poker rigged?

I've always told people that online poker was almost certainly fair. The simple
fact is that there is much more money to be made in running a fair room then
there is in cheating.

You see a lot more "action flops" online not because the decks are stacked to
induce rake, but because you see more hands in a given amount of time and  your
memory is subject to the [availability
bias](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Availability_heuristic).

There is no "doom switch" flipped after you cash out. That's a result of cashing
out after a good run and then experiencing a [regression to the
mean](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regression_toward_the_mean).

Collusion may be a problem. Online poker rooms have the tools to stop collusion,
but need to be more skilled than the colluders to be effective. Contrast this
with a live card room, where simple collusion techniques can be impossible to
identify.

### So how did this happen?

Running a fair room is in the best interest of the company, but not necessarily
in the best interest of everyone at the company. So if there is cheating, you
can be certain that not all shareholders are involved and splitting the profits
equally.

And while it would be in the best interest of the company to design software and
procedures to make cheating virtually impossible, there is no accounting for
incompetence.

### What about the regulators?

The Kahnawake Gaming Commission is toothless. To be honest I'm not surprised.

These Kahnawake Gaming Commission answers to no one other than the online
casinos they license. The people of the Mohawk Territory of Kahnawake have
little incentive to make sure the gaming commission regulates effectively. The
province of Quebec, and the government of Canada have no incentive.

And since there is no competition in hosting, regulating, and licensing online
casinos and poker rooms, they will continue to be hosted, regulated, and
licensed by the Kahnawake.

### So is online poker rigged?

No. But there is cheating going on. There are players on Absolute Poker and
Ultimate Bet who can see their opponents hole cards.

There is collusion going on. It's impossible to say how much, or how effective
any site is at finding or stopping it. There is little incentive for them to do
so. But that is no different from your live card rooms where collusion can be
impossible to stop.
