---
title: Acting Bio
date: '2009-03-26 15:16:39 +0000'
categories:
- acting
tags: []
---
I was born in South Carolina, the eldest child of a US Marine Corps drill
instructor. We left before I could develop a southern accent.

As a child I lived in Harrisburg, where I learned not to lose my keys;
Youngstown, where I learned that I like to be on stage; Garden Grove where I
learned that theme parks are way cooler with friends; Kailua, where I learned a
touch of salt makes fruit taste sweeter, especially citrus; and Oceanside where
I learned that audiences liked me on stage too.

After graduating high school I went far, far, away, to study at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Cambridge Massachusetts. I majored in
computer science when I discovered the computer labs were slightly less odorous
than the chemistry labs, and besides I could do most of the work without leaving
my dorm room.

The course load at MIT did not leave enough time to pursue other interests but I
did't let that stop me. While at MIT I was an active member of the Shakespeare
Ensemble, performing in several of their productions, as well as the music
director for the student-run MIT Marching Band.

Four mind-numbing and painful years later I was officially a baccalaureate and
desperately looking to do something entirely different. So with two of my
dearest friends, I packed sixty pounds of gear on a twenty pound bicycle and
headed west.

Four thousand six hundred miles, seventy-two days, and some ridiculous tan lines
later I was on the California coast and settling in to start a respectable
career as a software engineer.

The respectable career gimick lasted about only a few years. I wanted to act and
the job kept getting in the way. I was lucky enough to already be in Los Angeles
where lots of professional actors lived and worked, so I joined them.

My time in LA has been blessed by some amazing teachers and wonderful
colleagues. I have come a long way and I have a lot more to look forward to for
myself and the wonderful people I've had the privilege to meet and work with.
