

## What do you want to do? [^what-do-want-to-do]

[^what-do-you-want-to-do]: Not your job, but your work, now, tomorrow, and in the future. If you’re having trouble answering this, you’re going to have trouble moving up, because you’ve abdicated your dream to whomever walks in the door next.

I want to build things that make life easier, more pleasant, and more productive.

## Who do you want to change, and how do you want to change them?

I want to change the people with few, or unnecessarily rudamentary tools. I want to make their work easier, simpler, less error-prone, more effective, more productive, more enjoyable.

I want to free them to focus on the difficult, human, un-automatible portions of their work. I want to help them excel at what only they can do by providing tools that do the rest.

## How much risk? (from 1 [a little] to 10 [bet everything]), how much are you willing to put at stake to make the change you seek?

Five. I'm unwilling to give up my income or social status to achieve this.

## How much work are you willing to do to get there? Be specific about the tradeoffs.

Forty hours a week, forty-eight weeks a year for the rest of my life.

The tradeoff may be most of my income-generating time. I cannot work in a job that keeps me from this. That means no full-time jobs that aren't this, no jobs that wear me down and wear me out so much as to prevent this, and no big distractions that don't contribute to this.

## Does this project matter enough for the risk and the effort you’re putting into it?

It does. Anything else is unfulfilling.

## Is it possible — has anyone with your resources ever pulled off anything like this?

Yes. Independent software vendors have been doing this since at least the 80s.