---
title: Ace-Queen Facing a Three-Bet on Live at the Bike
category: poker
tags:
  - hand analysis
  - Live at the Bike
---

# Background

I'm in a no-limit hold'em cash game with $5 blinds and an allowed buy-in of $300
to $1000 dollars.

The game is broadcast on Live at the Bike, so if you have a subscription you can
watch this hand play out in the archives. It's from the April 30, 2015 show and
starts one hour and fifty-one minutes in.

# The action

The first player folds. I am second to act and have `AcQd` and about $1600 in my
stack. I raise to $25.

Everyone folds to the small blind, Paul, who re-raises to $65. He has $325 left
in his stack.

The big blind folds, but I call the $40. There is $130 in the pot.

The flop comes `QhJd6c`. Paul bets $100. I call. There is $330 in the pot.

The turn is an `8c`. Paul goes all-in for $225. I call.

Paul shows `KcKd` but the river is an `Ah` and I scoop the $779 pot.

# Committed

In this hand I have ace-queen on a queen-high board and an effective
stack-to-pot ratio of 2.5. That seems very much like a hand we'd like to commit
our entire stack with.

But there are a lot of reasons to think Paul has a very tight range here, and
if it's tight enough I should be folding.

# Paul's range

Paul re-raised me from out of the blinds. I think he has a very typical
three-bet range for this game, very tight and with no hands that don't have a
lot of showdown value.

When we consider the other factors; the initial raiser (me) is in early
position, we are heads-up, stacks are shallow, and he is out of position, and
it's pretty clear Paul is only raising for value and is probably has a very
tight range.

A good estimate of that range would be `JJ+` and `AK`. `TT` is a possibility but
I think it's very unlikely. I would entertain arguments to add `AQs` or remove
`AK`.


Let's estimate Paul's range as `JJ` (6 permutations), `QQ` (3 permutations),
`KK` (6 permutations), `AA` (3 permutations), `AK` (12 permutations).

I'm way behind this range, so what could justify calling here?

# Steal

There are a lot of flops Paul would give up on, thus allowing me to steal the
pot. Let's assume that Paul bets every top-pair or better hand check-folds
to $75 every time he doesn't have at least top-pair.

## From AK

Paul has `AK` 40% of the time (\` 12/30 \`).  When Paul has `AK` there are two
aces and three kings left out of the 48 unknown cards. The odds of none those
five cards coming out on the flop is \` 43/48 * 42/47 * 41/46 \` or 71.4%.

28.6% percent of the time we see a flop I will win the $130 pot on with a bet,
for an expected value of $37.20.

## From JJ or QQ

Paul has jacks or queens 30% (\` 9/30 \`) of the time. In those cases I can
steal the pot if the flop is king-high.

Given that neither of us have a king, the odds of a king not coming on the flop
is \` 44/48 * 43/47 * 42/46 \` or 76.6%. That makes the odds of getting a king
23.4%. The odds that an ace isn't one of the other two flop cards is \` 45/48 *
44/47 \`, or 87.8%.

That makes the odds of a king-high flop in this situation \` .878 * .234 \`,
20.5%

6.16% of the time I will win the $130 pot, for an expected value of $8.01.

## From flopped monsters

I'm assuming Paul bets the flop with every hand that beats me and that's close
to the truth. Bu he may check sets or straights, especially if there isn't a
flush draw possible.

The odds of Paul having `AK` and flopping a straight are less than 0.1% so let's
ignore that.

I'll ignore sets of aces and queens, because they extremely unlikely (~0.0006%),
and I wouldn't try to steal the pot if either of those cards came.

However if the flop came with a king or a jack but without an ace or queen I
could try and steal the pot and run into a set.

With the range I estimated for him, Paul has kings or jacks \` 12/30 \`, 30.0%
of the time. When he does he will not flop a set \`46/48 * 45/47 * 44/46\`,
87.8% of the time. When he has kings or jacks 12.2% of the time he will flop a set.

That means a total of 3.67% of the time I will try to steal from a set and lose
my $75 bet, for an expected value of negative $2.75.

# Out-flop

I touched on ace-high and queen-high flops earlier. It's very unclear how a flop
like that would play out but given our assumption that Paul wouldn't bet with
less than top-pair, I'm confident in saying that these situations have positive
equity.

In addition, flops like `KJT` and `AQX` are excellent opportunities to get the
rest of the money in as a big favorite.


# A tighter range for Paul

What happens if we take `AK` out of Paul's range? It's possible he wouldn't
three-bet with that hand, so how should that change my play?

With out `AK` Paul's range is `JJ` (6 permutations), `QQ` (3 permutations),
`KK` (6 permutations), `AA` (3 permutations).

Let's continue with the assumption that Paul bets the flop every time with
top-pair or better and check-folds with anything worse.

## 

# Other possibilities

Given the range of hands I estimate Paul could have, and the way I expect him to
play those hands, calling pre-flop looks to be profitable. But if I'm wrong this
hand could be disastrously bad.

If Paul bets sometimes with less than top-pair he takes away some pots I was
counting on stealing. Worse still, if he checks and calls with worse than
top-pair I lose not only what I've already put in the pot, but extra bets I made
trying to steal.

Even worse, it's possible Paul is never three-betting pre-flop with `AK` or
worse. In that case, even if he bets everything top-pair or better and
check-folds to everything else, I still lose money calling pre-flop.

# Conclusion

