---
title: The Value of Bitcoin
category:
tags:
---

My goal here is to determine the value of bitcoin from first principles.
When I say bitcoin I am referring to the digital asset, not the underlying
technology, software, or protocols.

I will start with establishing what money is, and how bitcoin is like
money. Then I will describe how to determine the value of money and apply
that same process to bitcoin. Afterwards we'll discuss what that means for
people who have bought or are considering buying bitcoin. And finally,
what this means for other block chain currencies.

## What is money?

Money, by definition, has three characteristics. It is a store of value,
a medium of exchange, and a unit of account.

A unit of account is something that is useful to measure the value (or
cost) of other items. In the same way we inches to measure length, we use
a currency, (like dollars) to measure value.

A medium of exchange is something that is useful in trade. I write
software and eat bananas. It's hard to trade grapes for software labor, so
instead I trade my labor for money, which I can then trade for bananas.

A store of value is something that is useful because it can be saved and
it retains its value. Bananas are a poor thing to save. They take up a lot
of space and lose all their value after about a week. Money, in contrast,
is worth about the same as it was last week or month.

## Types of money

Money can be categorized into three different types, commodity money,
representative money, and fiat money.

### Commodity money

A commodity is an economic good that is completely interchangeable.
A pound of coal is indistinguishable from every other pound of coal. An
ounce of copper is equal to every other ounce of copper.

Not all commodities are suitable as money. Barrels of crude oil are too
heavy to carry to the store. Pork bellies rot if they are not kept frozen.

Gold and silver have been used as money throughout most of the world.

### Representative currency

Something that represents commodity money can be used as money in its
place.

Copper is heavy and difficult to ship, so around 800 BC the Tang Dynasty
began to pay merchants with pieces of paper that could be exchanged for
copper in the capital.

As recently as 1933 the US Government issued gold certificate. Each
certificate could be exchanged for a fixed amount of gold.

### Fiat money

Fiat is Latin for "let it be done" and means an authoritative or arbitrary
order.[^fiat-definition] Fiat money is not an economic good like commodity
money, nor does it represent one. It is called fiat because something,
usually a government, declares it to be money.

## Bitcoin as money

The increasing pace and geographic scope of trade has demanded
increasingly fast and efficient mediums of exchange. By now, most money
doesn't exist as physical objects, but as accounts in computerized
ledgers. Instead of exchanging bills and coins we make debits and credits
with banks, credit card companies, and payment processors.

Bitcoin works the same way, except instead of a private ledger held by
a trusted party, it uses a distributed ledger that can be verified by
anyone in the world. And instead of an account that is tied to some
identity, it use an address tied to a secret key.

Because anyone can process bitcoin transactions, there is the potential
for them to happen faster and cheaper than other systems. Because there is
no need to tie an account to an identity there is the potential for pseudo
or complete anonymity. Because the ledger is distributed transfers can be
made without needed to trust any third-party. 

## Underlying value of money

### Commodity and representative money

The underlying value of commodity money comes from the utility that the
commodity provides. For instance, gold is extremely inert, malleable, and
conductive. Because of that there is a lot demand for it in electronics
and other uses.

Representative currencies add a layer of indirection. The value of a gold
certificate is the same as the value of the gold it represents, plus the
value of the convenience the certification provides, minus the cost of
converting it to gold and the risk of not being able to convert it.

In 1800's America banks were not permitted to have satellite branches, so
the value (and thus the price) of a gold certificate would decrease based
on its distance from the bank that issued it.

### Fiat money

The value of fiat money comes from the demands of the government that
supports it.

The U.S. Government has declared US Dollars to be legal tender, which
means that is is accepted for all debts, public charges, taxes, and
dues.[^31 U.S.C. ยง 5103]. As long as the US government demands US dollars,
it has value to people who need to pay.

In theory, a government's demand for their own currency could end at any
time. However, the benefits of being able to create your own money are so
great that as long as the government is capable of operating in its own
best interest it will maintain the value of its currency.

## Secondary demand for money

Much of the demand for money come from people who do not want it for its
underlying value. 

Investors don't buy gold coins to make circuit boards. I want dollars so
I can pay taxes, but also so I can buy grapes from the grocer. The grocer
wants dollars so he can pay his suppliers and landlord and stock boy. And
they all want dollars so they can buy a myriad of things.

And even though much of the trade in dollars is not to immediately satisfy
the demand from the government, that demand is why the dollars have value
and why we are all willing to trade valuable things for them. If the
underlying demand disappears, the value of the dollar would disappear with
it.

We see this every time a government falls. Once the government no longer
provides the underlying demand for its currency, nobody wants it and the
value of the currency drops to zero.

## The value of bitcoin

Bitcoin does not have utility like a commodity money. It does not
represent a commodity with utility. And it does not have any a fundamental
underlying source of demand like fiat money. Bitcoin has no value.

This is notwithstanding the amazing features of public block chain
technologies. Fast and cheap transfers, facilitated without trusted
intermediaries, is not enough to make the thing being transferred
valuable.

## Value versus price

Up until now I have written a lot about value but I haven't talked about
price. The value of something is what it is worth. The price is what
people pay for it. This distinction makes it possible for me to say that
bitcoin has no value even though the current price is thousands of
dollars.

## Value investing versus speculation

Value investing is the process of identifying and purchasing assets that
are worth more than their price. When a value investor pays \$70 to buy an
asset that is worth \$100, they make \$30 in profit instantly.

Because bitcoin has no value, it cannot be a value investment.

Speculation is the process of guessing which assets people will pay more
for in the future and buying those assets with the intent of selling them
when the price goes up.

Bitcoin meteoric rise in price has created astonishing returns for
speculators and it may continue to do so. Because the price is limited
only by what people believe other people will pay for bitcoin in the
future there is no limit to how high it can go.

However, like all speculative bubbles, the price of bitcoin is unstable.
A sufficiently large shock to the confidence of speculators that the price
will continue to go up will cause it to crash all the way to zero. Over
time the odds of such a shock happening approach 100%. Eventually the
price of bitcoin will fall to effectively zero.

Unfortunately, it is impossible to identify when this crash will happen,
only that it will.

It is possible to make a lot of money on speculation buy either being
lucky or predicting investor sentiment. There is no known way to reliable
and ethically generate either of those conditions.


[^fiat-definition]: [Merriam-Webster](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/fiat)

[^31 U.S.C. ยง 5103]: [31 U.S.C. ยง 5103](https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/31/5103)
