---
title: The Value of a Bitcoin
category:
tags:
---

My goal here is to determine the value of bitcoin from first principles.
When I say bitcoin I am referring to the digital asset, not the underlying
technology, software, or protocols.

I will start with the assumption that bitcoin is money. Then, once we have
determined how to measure the value of money, we can apply that process to
bitcoin and see what result we get.

But first a digression.

## What is money?

Money, by definition, has three characteristics. It is a store of value,
a medium of exchange, and a unit of account.

A unit of account is something that is useful to measure the value (or
cost) of other items. In the same way we inches to measure length, we use
a currency, (like dollars) to measure value.

A medium of exchange is something that is useful in trade. I write
software and eat bananas. It's hard to trade grapes for software labor, so
instead I trade my labor for money, which I can then trade for bananas.

A store of value is something that is useful because it can be saved and
it retains its value. Bananas are a poor thing to save. They take up a lot
of space and lose all their value after about a week. Money, in contrast,
is worth about the same as it was last week or month.

## Types of money

Money can be categorized into three different types, commodity money,
representative money, and fiat money.

### Commodity money

A commodity is an economic good that is completely interchangeable.
A pound of coal is indistinguishable from every other pound of coal. An
ounce of copper is equal to every other ounce of copper.

Not all commodities are suitable as money. Barrels of crude oil are too
heavy to carry to the store. Pork bellies rot if they are not kept frozen.

Gold and silver have been used as money throughout most of the world.

### Representative currency

Something that represents commodity money can be used as money in its
place.

Copper is heavy and difficult to ship, so around 800 BC the Tang Dynasty
began to pay merchants with pieces of paper that could be exchanged for
copper in the capital.

As recently as 1933 the US Government issued gold certificate. Each
certificate could be exchanged for a fixed amount of gold.

### Fiat money

Fiat is Latin for "let it be done" and means an authoritative or arbitrary
order.[^fiat-definition] Fiat money is not an economic good like commodity
money, nor does it represent one. It is called fiat because something,
usually a government, declares it to be money.

## Bitcoin as money

The increasing pace and geographic scope of trade has demanded
increasingly fast and efficient mediums of exchange. By now, most money
doesn't exist as physical objects, but as accounts in computerized
ledgers. Instead of exchanging bills and coins we make debits and credits
with banks, credit card companies, and payment processors.

Bitcoin works the same way, except instead of a private ledger held by
a trusted party, it uses a distributed ledger that can be verified by
anyone in the world. And instead of an account that is tied to some
identity, it use an address tied to a secret key.

Because anyone can process bitcoin transactions, there is the potential
for them to happen faster and cheaper than other systems. Because there is
no need to tie an account to an identity there is the potential for pseudo
or complete anonymity. Because the ledger is distributed transfers can be
made without needed to trust any third-party. 

## Underlying demand for money

### Commodity and representative money

The underlying demand of commodity money comes from the utility that the
commodity provides. For instance, gold is extremely inert, malleable, and
conductive. Because of that there is a lot demand for it in electronics
and user uses.

Representative currencies add one layer of complexity. The demand for gold
certificate is the same as the demand for the gold it represents, plus the
value of the convenience the certification provides, minus the cost of
converting it to gold and the risk of not being able to convert it.

In 1800's America banks were not permitted to have satellite branches, so
the demand (and thus value and price) of a gold certificate would decrease
based on its distance from the bank that issued it.

### Fiat money

The underlying demand for fiat money is generated by the government that
created it.

For example, the U.S. Government has declared US Dollars to be legal
tender, which means that is is accepted for all debts, public charge,
taxes, and dues.[^31 U.S.C. ยง 5103].

## Secondary demand for money

Much of the demand for money come from people who do not want it for its
underlying utility. I want dollars so I can buy grapes from the grocer.
The grocer wants dollars so he can pay his suppliers, and landlord, and
stock boy. And they all want dollars so they can buy a myriad of things.

And even though much of the trade in dollars is not to immediately satisfy
the underlying demand, the underlying demand is why the dollars have value
and why we are all willing to trade valuable things for them. If the
underlying demand disappears, the value of the dollar would disappear with
it.

This is evident every time a government falls. Once the government no
longer provides the underlying demand for its currency, all other demand
dries up and the value of the currency plummets to nothing.



[^fiat-definition]: [Merriam-Webster](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/fiat)

[^31 U.S.C. ยง 5103]: [31 U.S.C. ยง 5103](https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/31/5103)
